---
layout: post
title: Keeping mount points persistent using fstab
tags: linux
---

## Process to format drive and mount persistently 
- Format the partition /dev/sda2 using “mkfs”
- Create the directory: The directory “/home/pi/Drive_B” was created using “mkdir /home/pi/Drive_B”
- Add the values to fstab. The UUID and the mount point is what binds things

### Format the file system

Format using `mkfs` command

```
sudo mkfs.ext4 /dev/sda2
```
 
### Find the partition
```
pi@raspberrypi-ard:~ $ lsblk
NAME        MAJ:MIN RM  SIZE RO TYPE MOUNTPOINT
sda           8:0    0  1.8T  0 disk
├─sda1        8:1    0    1T  0 part /home/pi/DRIVE_A
└─sda2        8:2    0  839G  0 part /home/pi/DRIVE_B
mmcblk0     179:0    0 29.8G  0 disk
├─mmcblk0p1 179:1    0  256M  0 part /boot
└─mmcblk0p2 179:2    0 29.6G  0 part /
```
 
### View details of the partition 

in my case /dev/sda2
```
pi@raspberrypi-ard:~ $ lsblk --fs /dev/sda2
NAME FSTYPE LABEL UUID                                 FSAVAIL FSUSE% MOUNTPOINT
sda2 ext4         4a6be123-dfa6-471c-aa3a-72d69e9f2dfa  228.8G    67% /home/pi/DRIVE_B
```
The above gives FSType also which is also a field in the fstab so populating would be easy.

## FSTAB fields 
In fstab, there are multiple fields. Each line contains the below fields separated by a tab space.
- Block device : This is the UUID part to signify which device need to be used
- Mount point: The mount point of the device : in my case “/home/pi/Drive_B”
- File system: In my case, ext4
- Options:  These are options associated with the file system. I provided defaults, errors=remount-ro (remount as read only)
- Dump: default is 0, which means don’t dump. IMHO, I haven’t really used much of this option. I always end up leaving it as default
- Check: file system checks that need to be done at boot time and defaults to 0 which means don’t check the file system. I always leave it as default. Unless you need to run fsck everytime you boot.

### Example 
open fstab file using `vim /etc/fstab` and add the below line

```
UUID=4a6be123-dfa6-471c-aa3a-72d69e9f2dfa    /home/pi/DRIVE_B     ext4   defaults,errors=remount-ro       0      0
```

## References
```
https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man5/fstab.5.html
```
